#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.8
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile --extra-index-url=https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cpu --extra=ann --extra=docs-additional --extra=dune --extra=gmsh --extra=gui --extra=ipyparallel --extra=jupyter --extra=mpi --extra=ngsolve --extra=pymepack --extra=scikit-fem --extra=slycot --extra=tests --extra=vtk --output-file=requirements-ci-oldest.txt --resolver=backtracking pyproject.toml requirements-ci-oldest-pins.in
#
--extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cpu

alabaster==0.7.13
    # via sphinx
anyascii==0.3.2
    # via sphinx-autoapi
anyio==4.3.0
    # via
    #   httpx
    #   jupyter-server
argon2-cffi==23.1.0
    # via jupyter-server
argon2-cffi-bindings==21.2.0
    # via argon2-cffi
arrow==1.3.0
    # via isoduration
astroid==3.1.0
    # via sphinx-autoapi
asttokens==2.4.1
    # via stack-data
async-lru==2.0.4
    # via jupyterlab
attrs==22.2.0
    # via
    #   hypothesis
    #   jsonschema
    #   jupyter-cache
    #   pytest-notebook
    #   referencing
babel==2.14.0
    # via
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   sphinx
backcall==0.2.0
    # via ipython
bash-kernel==0.9.3
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
beautifulsoup4==4.12.3
    # via
    #   nbconvert
    #   sphinx-material
bleach==6.1.0
    # via nbconvert
certifi==2024.2.2
    # via
    #   httpcore
    #   httpx
    #   requests
cffi==1.16.0
    # via argon2-cffi-bindings
charset-normalizer==3.3.2
    # via requests
click==8.1.7
    # via
    #   jupyter-cache
    #   typer
colorama==0.4.6
    # via nbdime
comm==0.2.1
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipywidgets
contourpy==1.1.1
    # via matplotlib
coverage[toml]==7.4.3
    # via pytest-cov
css-html-js-minify==2.5.5
    # via sphinx-material
cycler==0.12.1
    # via matplotlib
debugpy==1.8.1
    # via ipykernel
decorator==5.1.1
    # via
    #   ipyparallel
    #   ipython
defusedxml==0.7.1
    # via nbconvert
diskcache==5.6.3
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
docutils==0.17.1
    # via
    #   myst-parser
    #   pybtex-docutils
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinxcontrib-bibtex
dune-gdt==2022.5.3 ; platform_system == "Linux" and platform_machine == "x86_64"
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
dune-xt[visualisation]==2022.5.3 ; platform_system == "Linux" and platform_machine == "x86_64"
    # via
    #   dune-gdt
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
entrypoints==0.4
    # via ipyparallel
exceptiongroup==1.2.0
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   hypothesis
    #   pytest
executing==2.0.1
    # via stack-data
fastjsonschema==2.19.1
    # via nbformat
fonttools==4.49.0
    # via matplotlib
fqdn==1.5.1
    # via jsonschema
gitdb==4.0.11
    # via gitpython
gitpython==3.1.42
    # via nbdime
gmsh==4.12.2
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
greenlet==3.0.3
    # via sqlalchemy
h11==0.14.0
    # via httpcore
httpcore==1.0.4
    # via httpx
httpx==0.27.0
    # via jupyterlab
hypothesis[numpy,pytest]==6.56.3
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
idna==3.6
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   httpx
    #   jsonschema
    #   requests
imagesize==1.4.1
    # via sphinx
importlib-metadata==6.11.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-cache
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-lsp
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   myst-nb
    #   nbconvert
    #   pytest-notebook
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinxcontrib-bibtex
importlib-resources==5.13.0
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jsonschema-specifications
    #   jupyterlab
    #   pytest-notebook
iniconfig==2.0.0
    # via pytest
intel-openmp==2024.0.2
    # via mkl
ipykernel==6.29.3
    # via
    #   bash-kernel
    #   ipyparallel
    #   jupyterlab
    #   myst-nb
ipympl==0.9.3
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
ipyparallel==8.6.1
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
ipython==8.12.3
    # via
    #   dune-xt
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipympl
    #   ipyparallel
    #   ipywidgets
    #   myst-nb
ipython-genutils==0.2.0
    # via ipympl
ipywidgets==8.1.2
    # via
    #   dune-xt
    #   ipympl
    #   k3d
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
isoduration==20.11.0
    # via jsonschema
jedi==0.19.1
    # via ipython
jinja2==3.1.3
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   myst-parser
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbdime
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-autoapi
json5==0.9.18
    # via jupyterlab-server
jsonpointer==2.4
    # via jsonschema
jsonschema[format-nongpl]==4.21.1
    # via
    #   jupyter-events
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   nbformat
    #   pytest-notebook
jsonschema-specifications==2023.12.1
    # via jsonschema
jupyter-cache==0.6.1
    # via myst-nb
jupyter-client==8.6.0
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipyparallel
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclient
jupyter-core==5.7.1
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
jupyter-events==0.9.0
    # via jupyter-server
jupyter-lsp==2.2.3
    # via jupyterlab
jupyter-server==2.12.5
    # via
    #   jupyter-lsp
    #   jupyter-server-mathjax
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-myst
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   nbdime
    #   notebook
    #   notebook-shim
jupyter-server-mathjax==0.2.6
    # via nbdime
jupyter-server-terminals==0.5.2
    # via jupyter-server
jupyterlab==4.1.2
    # via
    #   notebook
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
jupyterlab-myst==2.3.1
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
jupyterlab-pygments==0.3.0
    # via nbconvert
jupyterlab-server==2.25.3
    # via
    #   jupyterlab
    #   notebook
jupyterlab-widgets==3.0.10
    # via ipywidgets
k3d==2.15.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements-ci-oldest-pins.in
    #   dune-xt
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
kiwisolver==1.4.5
    # via matplotlib
latexcodec==2.0.1
    # via pybtex
lxml==5.1.0
    # via
    #   dune-xt
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   sphinx-material
markdown-it-py==2.2.0
    # via
    #   mdit-py-plugins
    #   myst-parser
    #   rich
markupsafe==2.1.5
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   nbconvert
matplotlib==3.6.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements-ci-oldest-pins.in
    #   dune-xt
    #   ipympl
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   vtk
matplotlib-inline==0.1.6
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipython
mdit-py-plugins==0.3.5
    # via myst-parser
mdurl==0.1.2
    # via markdown-it-py
meshio==5.3.5
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
mistune==3.0.2
    # via nbconvert
mkl==2024.0.0
    # via ngsolve
mpi4py==3.1.5
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
msgpack==1.0.8
    # via k3d
myst-nb==0.17.2
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
myst-parser==0.18.1
    # via myst-nb
nbclient==0.5.13
    # via
    #   jupyter-cache
    #   myst-nb
    #   nbconvert
    #   pytest-notebook
nbconvert==7.16.1
    # via jupyter-server
nbdime==4.0.1
    # via pytest-notebook
nbformat==5.9.2
    # via
    #   jupyter-cache
    #   jupyter-server
    #   myst-nb
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbdime
    #   pytest-notebook
nest-asyncio==1.6.0
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   nbclient
netgen-mesher==6.2.2401
    # via ngsolve
ngsolve==6.2.2401
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
notebook==7.1.1
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
notebook-shim==0.2.4
    # via
    #   jupyterlab
    #   notebook
numpy==1.20.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements-ci-oldest-pins.in
    #   contourpy
    #   dune-xt
    #   hypothesis
    #   ipympl
    #   k3d
    #   matplotlib
    #   meshio
    #   pyevtk
    #   pymepack
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   scikit-fem
    #   scipy
    #   slycot
overrides==7.7.0
    # via jupyter-server
packaging==23.2
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   matplotlib
    #   nbconvert
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   pytest
    #   qtpy
    #   sphinx
pandocfilters==1.5.1
    # via nbconvert
parameterized==0.9.0
    # via pymepack
parso==0.8.3
    # via jedi
pexpect==4.9.0
    # via
    #   bash-kernel
    #   ipython
pickleshare==0.7.5
    # via ipython
pillow==10.2.0
    # via
    #   ipympl
    #   matplotlib
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
pkgutil-resolve-name==1.3.10
    # via jsonschema
platformdirs==4.2.0
    # via jupyter-core
pluggy==1.4.0
    # via pytest
prometheus-client==0.20.0
    # via jupyter-server
prompt-toolkit==3.0.43
    # via ipython
psutil==5.9.8
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipyparallel
ptyprocess==0.7.0
    # via
    #   pexpect
    #   terminado
pure-eval==0.2.2
    # via stack-data
pybind11[global]==2.11.1
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
pybind11-global==2.11.1
    # via pybind11
pybtex==0.24.0
    # via
    #   pybtex-docutils
    #   sphinxcontrib-bibtex
pybtex-docutils==1.0.3
    # via sphinxcontrib-bibtex
pycparser==2.21
    # via cffi
pyevtk==1.6.0
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
pygments==2.17.2
    # via
    #   ipython
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbdime
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   rich
    #   sphinx
pymepack==1.1.1.post2
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
pyopengl==3.1.7
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
pyparsing==3.1.1
    # via matplotlib
pyside6==6.6.2
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
pyside6-addons==6.6.2
    # via pyside6
pyside6-essentials==6.6.2
    # via
    #   pyside6
    #   pyside6-addons
pytest==8.0.2
    # via
    #   hypothesis
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   pytest-cov
    #   pytest-datadir
    #   pytest-notebook
pytest-cov==4.1.0
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
pytest-datadir==1.5.0
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
pytest-notebook==0.10.0
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via
    #   arrow
    #   ipyparallel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   matplotlib
python-json-logger==2.0.7
    # via jupyter-events
python-slugify[unidecode]==8.0.4
    # via
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   sphinx-material
pytz==2024.1
    # via babel
pyyaml==6.0.1
    # via
    #   jupyter-cache
    #   jupyter-events
    #   myst-nb
    #   myst-parser
    #   pybtex
    #   sphinx-autoapi
pyzmq==25.1.2
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipyparallel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-server
qtpy==2.4.1
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
referencing==0.33.0
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jsonschema-specifications
    #   jupyter-events
requests==2.31.0
    # via
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   nbdime
    #   sphinx
rfc3339-validator==0.1.4
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jupyter-events
rfc3986-validator==0.1.1
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jupyter-events
rich==13.7.1
    # via meshio
rpds-py==0.18.0
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
scikit-fem==6.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements-ci-oldest-pins.in
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
scipy==1.6.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements-ci-oldest-pins.in
    #   dune-xt
    #   pymepack
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   scikit-fem
send2trash==1.8.2
    # via jupyter-server
shiboken6==6.6.2
    # via
    #   pyside6
    #   pyside6-addons
    #   pyside6-essentials
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   asttokens
    #   bleach
    #   latexcodec
    #   pybtex
    #   python-dateutil
    #   rfc3339-validator
slycot==0.5.4
    # via
    #   -r requirements-ci-oldest-pins.in
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
smmap==5.0.1
    # via gitdb
sniffio==1.3.1
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   httpx
snowballstemmer==2.2.0
    # via sphinx
sortedcontainers==2.4.0
    # via hypothesis
soupsieve==2.5
    # via beautifulsoup4
sphinx==5.3.0
    # via
    #   myst-nb
    #   myst-parser
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   sphinx-autoapi
    #   sphinx-material
    #   sphinxcontrib-bibtex
sphinx-autoapi==2.1.1
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
sphinx-material==0.0.36
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
sphinxcontrib-applehelp==1.0.4
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-bibtex==2.6.2
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
sphinxcontrib-devhelp==1.0.2
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-htmlhelp==2.0.1
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-jsmath==1.0.1
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-qthelp==1.0.3
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml==1.1.5
    # via sphinx
sqlalchemy==2.0.27
    # via jupyter-cache
stack-data==0.6.3
    # via ipython
tabulate==0.9.0
    # via jupyter-cache
tbb==2021.11.0
    # via mkl
terminado==0.18.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyter-server-terminals
text-unidecode==1.3
    # via python-slugify
tinycss2==1.2.1
    # via nbconvert
tomli==2.0.1
    # via
    #   coverage
    #   jupyterlab
    #   pytest
torch==1.11.0+cpu
    # via
    #   -r requirements-ci-oldest-pins.in
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
tornado==6.4
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipyparallel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   nbdime
    #   notebook
    #   terminado
tqdm==4.66.2
    # via ipyparallel
traitlets==5.14.1
    # via
    #   comm
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipympl
    #   ipyparallel
    #   ipython
    #   ipywidgets
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-core
    #   jupyter-events
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   k3d
    #   matplotlib-inline
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
    #   traittypes
traittypes==0.2.1
    # via k3d
typer==0.9.0
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
types-python-dateutil==2.8.19.20240106
    # via arrow
typing-extensions==4.10.0
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   astroid
    #   async-lru
    #   ipython
    #   myst-nb
    #   myst-parser
    #   rich
    #   sqlalchemy
    #   torch
    #   typer
unidecode==1.3.8
    # via python-slugify
uri-template==1.3.0
    # via jsonschema
urllib3==2.2.1
    # via requests
vtk==9.3.0
    # via dune-xt
wcwidth==0.2.13
    # via prompt-toolkit
webcolors==1.13
    # via jsonschema
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via
    #   bleach
    #   tinycss2
websocket-client==1.7.0
    # via jupyter-server
widgetsnbextension==4.0.10
    # via ipywidgets
xmljson==0.2.1
    # via
    #   dune-xt
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
zipp==3.17.0
    # via
    #   importlib-metadata
    #   importlib-resources
