#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.10
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile --extra=ci --output-file=requirements-ci.txt --resolver=backtracking
#
anyio==3.6.2
    # via jupyter-server
argon2-cffi==21.3.0
    # via jupyter-server
argon2-cffi-bindings==21.2.0
    # via argon2-cffi
arrow==1.2.3
    # via isoduration
attrs==22.2.0
    # via
    #   hypothesis
    #   jsonschema
    #   pytest
    #   pytest-notebook
beautifulsoup4==4.12.2
    # via nbconvert
bleach==6.0.0
    # via
    #   nbconvert
    #   readme-renderer
build==0.10.0
    # via check-manifest
certifi==2022.12.7
    # via requests
cffi==1.15.1
    # via
    #   argon2-cffi-bindings
    #   cmarkgfm
    #   cryptography
charset-normalizer==3.1.0
    # via requests
check-manifest==0.49
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
check-reqs==1.0.0
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
click==7.1.2
    # via
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   pypi-oldest-requirements
    #   typer
cmarkgfm==2022.10.27
    # via readme-renderer
colorama==0.4.6
    # via
    #   nbdime
    #   typer
commonmark==0.9.1
    # via rich
coverage[toml]==7.2.3
    # via pytest-cov
cryptography==40.0.2
    # via secretstorage
defusedxml==0.7.1
    # via nbconvert
diskcache==5.5.1
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
docutils==0.18
    # via
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   readme-renderer
    #   rstcheck-core
editables==0.3
    # via hatchling
exceptiongroup==1.1.1
    # via
    #   hypothesis
    #   pytest
execnet==1.9.0
    # via pytest-xdist
fastjsonschema==2.16.3
    # via nbformat
fqdn==1.5.1
    # via jsonschema
gitdb==4.0.10
    # via gitpython
gitpython==3.1.31
    # via nbdime
hatch-vcs==0.3.0
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
hatchling==1.14.0
    # via
    #   hatch-vcs
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
hypothesis[numpy,pytest]==6.56.3
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
idna==3.4
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   jsonschema
    #   requests
importlib-metadata==6.3.0
    # via
    #   keyring
    #   twine
iniconfig==2.0.0
    # via pytest
isoduration==20.11.0
    # via jsonschema
jaraco-classes==3.2.3
    # via keyring
jeepney==0.8.0
    # via
    #   keyring
    #   secretstorage
jinja2==3.1.2
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbdime
jsonpointer==2.3
    # via jsonschema
jsonschema[format-nongpl]==4.17.3
    # via
    #   jupyter-events
    #   nbformat
    #   pytest-notebook
jupyter-client==8.2.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclient
jupyter-core==5.3.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
jupyter-events==0.6.3
    # via jupyter-server
jupyter-server==2.5.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-server-mathjax
    #   nbdime
jupyter-server-mathjax==0.2.6
    # via nbdime
jupyter-server-terminals==0.4.4
    # via jupyter-server
jupyterlab-pygments==0.2.2
    # via nbconvert
keyring==23.13.1
    # via twine
markupsafe==2.1.2
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   nbconvert
mistune==2.0.5
    # via nbconvert
more-itertools==9.1.0
    # via jaraco-classes
nbclient==0.5.13
    # via
    #   nbconvert
    #   pytest-notebook
nbconvert==7.3.1
    # via jupyter-server
nbdime==3.1.1
    # via pytest-notebook
nbformat==5.8.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbdime
    #   pytest-notebook
nest-asyncio==1.5.6
    # via nbclient
numpy==1.24.2
    # via
    #   hypothesis
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   scipy
packaging==23.1
    # via
    #   build
    #   hatchling
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbconvert
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   pypi-oldest-requirements
    #   pytest
    #   qtpy
    #   setuptools-scm
pandocfilters==1.5.0
    # via nbconvert
pathspec==0.11.1
    # via hatchling
pkginfo==1.9.6
    # via twine
platformdirs==3.2.0
    # via jupyter-core
pluggy==1.0.0
    # via
    #   hatchling
    #   pytest
prometheus-client==0.16.0
    # via jupyter-server
psutil==5.9.4
    # via pytest-memprof
ptyprocess==0.7.0
    # via terminado
pybind11==2.9.2
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
pycparser==2.21
    # via cffi
pydantic==1.10.7
    # via rstcheck-core
pygments==2.15.0
    # via
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbdime
    #   readme-renderer
    #   rich
pypi-oldest-requirements==2022.1.0
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
pyproject-hooks==1.0.0
    # via build
pyqt5==5.15.7
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
pyqt5-qt5==5.15.2
    # via
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   pyqt5
pyqt5-sip==12.12.0
    # via pyqt5
pyrsistent==0.19.3
    # via jsonschema
pytest==7.2.0
    # via
    #   hypothesis
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   pytest-cov
    #   pytest-datadir
    #   pytest-memprof
    #   pytest-notebook
    #   pytest-parallel
    #   pytest-regressions
    #   pytest-xdist
pytest-cov==4.0.0
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
pytest-datadir==1.4.1
    # via pytest-regressions
pytest-memprof==0.2.0
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
pytest-notebook==0.8.1
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
pytest-parallel==0.1.1
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
pytest-regressions==2.4.1
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
pytest-xdist==3.1.0
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
python-dateutil==2.8.2
    # via
    #   arrow
    #   jupyter-client
python-dotenv==0.21.0
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
python-gitlab==3.12.0
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
python-json-logger==2.0.7
    # via jupyter-events
pyyaml==6.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-events
    #   pytest-regressions
pyzmq==25.0.2
    # via
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-server
qtpy==2.3.1
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
readme-renderer[md]==37.0
    # via
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   twine
requests==2.28.2
    # via
    #   nbdime
    #   pypi-oldest-requirements
    #   python-gitlab
    #   requests-toolbelt
    #   twine
requests-toolbelt==0.10.1
    # via
    #   pypi-oldest-requirements
    #   python-gitlab
    #   twine
requirements-parser==0.5.0
    # via pypi-oldest-requirements
rfc3339-validator==0.1.4
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jupyter-events
rfc3986==2.0.0
    # via twine
rfc3986-validator==0.1.1
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jupyter-events
rich==12.6.0
    # via
    #   check-reqs
    #   twine
    #   typer
rstcheck==6.1.1
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
rstcheck-core==1.0.3
    # via rstcheck
ruff==0.0.242
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
scipy==1.10.1
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
secretstorage==3.3.3
    # via keyring
send2trash==1.8.0
    # via jupyter-server
setuptools-scm==7.1.0
    # via hatch-vcs
shellingham==1.5.0.post1
    # via typer
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   bleach
    #   python-dateutil
    #   rfc3339-validator
smmap==5.0.0
    # via gitdb
sniffio==1.3.0
    # via anyio
sortedcontainers==2.4.0
    # via hypothesis
soupsieve==2.4
    # via beautifulsoup4
tblib==1.7.0
    # via pytest-parallel
terminado==0.17.1
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyter-server-terminals
tinycss2==1.2.1
    # via nbconvert
tomli==2.0.1
    # via
    #   build
    #   check-manifest
    #   coverage
    #   hatchling
    #   pyproject-hooks
    #   pytest
    #   setuptools-scm
tornado==6.2
    # via
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbdime
    #   terminado
traitlets==5.9.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-core
    #   jupyter-events
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
trove-classifiers==2023.3.9
    # via hatchling
twine==4.0.2
    # via pymor (pyproject.toml)
typer[all]==0.5.0
    # via
    #   check-reqs
    #   pymor (pyproject.toml)
    #   pypi-oldest-requirements
    #   rstcheck
types-docutils==0.19.1.7
    # via rstcheck-core
types-setuptools==67.6.0.7
    # via requirements-parser
typing-extensions==4.5.0
    # via
    #   pydantic
    #   setuptools-scm
uri-template==1.2.0
    # via jsonschema
urllib3==1.26.15
    # via
    #   requests
    #   twine
webcolors==1.13
    # via jsonschema
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via
    #   bleach
    #   tinycss2
websocket-client==1.5.1
    # via jupyter-server
zipp==3.15.0
    # via importlib-metadata

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# setuptools
