
pyMOR 0.3 (March 2, 2015)
-------------------------

- Introduction of the vector space concept for even simpler
  integration with external solvers.

- Addition of a generic Newton algorithm.

- Support for Jacobian evaluation of empirically interpolated operators.

- Greatly improved performance of the EI-Greedy algorithm. Addition of
  the DEIM algorithm.

- A new algorithm for residual operator projection and a new,
  numerically stable a posteriori error estimator for stationary coercive
  problems based on this algorithm. (cf. A. Buhr, C. Engwer, M. Ohlberger,
  S. Rave, 'A numerically stable a posteriori error estimator for reduced
  basis approximations of elliptic equations', proceedings of WCCM 2014,
  Barcelona, 2014.)

- A new, easy to use mechanism for setting and accessing default values.

- Serialization via the pickle module is now possible for each class in
  pyMOR. (See the new 'analyze_pickle' demo.)

- Addition of generic iterative linear solvers which can be used in
  conjunction with any operator satisfying pyMOR's operator interface.
  Support for least squares solvers and PyAMG (http://www.pyamg.org/).

- An improved SQLite-based cache backend.

- Improvements to the built-in discretizations: support for bilinear
  finite elements and addition of a finite volume diffusion operator.

- Test coverage has been raised from 46% to 75%.

Over 500 single commits have entered this release. A full list of
all changes can be obtained under the following address:
https://github.com/pymor/pymor/compare/0.2.2...0.3.0
