

pyMOR 2020.1 (July 23, 2020)
----------------------------
We are proud to announce the release of pyMOR 2020.1! Highlights of this release
are support for non-intrusive model order reduction using artificial neural networks,
the subspace accelerated dominant pole algorithm (SAMDP) and the implicitly restarted
Arnoldi method for eigenvalue computation. Parameter handling in pyMOR has been
simplified, and a new series of hands-on tutorials helps getting started using pyMOR
more easily.

Over 600 single commits have entered this release. For a full list of changes
see `here <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/compare/2019.2.x...2020.1.x>`__.

pyMOR 2020.1 contains contributions by Linus Balicki, Tim Keil, Hendrik Kleikamp
and Luca Mechelli. We are also happy to welcome Linus as a new main developer!
See `here <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/blob/main/AUTHORS.md>`__ for more
details.


Release highlights
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Model order reduction using artificial neural networks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
With this release, we introduce a simple approach for non-intrusive model order
reduction to pyMOR that makes use of artificial neural networks
`[#1001] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1001>`_. The method was first
described in :cite:`HU18` and only requires being able to compute solution snapshots of
the full-order |Model|. Thus, it can be applied to arbitrary (nonlinear) |Models| even when no
access to the model's |Operators| is possible.

Our implementation internally wraps `PyTorch <https://pytorch.org>`_ for the training and evaluation of
the neural networks. No knowledge of PyTorch or neural networks is required to apply the method.


New system analysis and linear algebra algorithms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The new :meth:`~pymor.algorithms.eigs.eigs` method
`[#880] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/880>`_ computes
smallest/largest eigenvalues of an arbitary linear real |Operator|
using the implicitly restarted Arnoldi method :cite:`RL95`. It can also
be used to solve generalized eigenvalue problems.

So far, computing poles of an |LTIModel| was only supported by its
:meth:`~pymor.models.iosys.LTIModel.poles` method, which uses a dense eigenvalue
solver and converts the operators to dense matrices.
The new :meth:`~pymor.algorithms.samdp.samdp` method
`[#834] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/834>`_ implements the
subspace accelerated dominant pole (SAMDP) algorithm  :cite:`RM06`,
which can be used to compute the dominant poles operators of an
|LTIModel| with arbitrary (in particular sparse) system |Operators|
without relying on dense matrix operations.


Improved parameter handling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
While pyMOR always had a powerful and flexible system for handling |parameters|,
understanding this system was often a challenge for pyMOR newcomers. Therefore,
we have completely overhauled parameter handling in pyMOR, removing some unneeded
complexities and making the nomenclature more straightforward. In particular:

- The `Parameter` class has been renamed to :class:`~pymor.parameters.base.Mu`.
  `ParameterType` has been renamed to |Parameters|. The items of a |Parameters|
  dict are the individual *parameters* of the corresponding |ParametricObject|.
  The items of a :class:`~pymor.parameters.base.Mu` dict are the associated
  *parameter values*.
- All parameters are now one-dimensional NumPy arrays.
- Instead of manually calling `build_parameter_type` in `__init__`, the |parameters|
  of a |ParametricObject| are now automatically inferred from the object's `__init__`
  arguments. The process can be customized using the new `parameters_own` and
  `parameters_internal` properties.
- `CubicParameterSpace` was renamed to |ParameterSpace| and is created using
  `parametric_object.parameters.space(ranges)`.

Further details can be found in `[#923] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/923>`_.
Also see `[#949] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/949>`_ and
`[#998] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/998>`_.


pyMOR tutorial collection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Hands-on tutorials provide a good opportunity for new users to get started with
a software library. In this release a variety of tutorials have been added which
introduce important pyMOR concepts and basic model order reduction methods. In
particular users can now learn about:

- :doc:`../tutorial_builtin_discretizer`.
- :doc:`../tutorial_basis_generation`
- :doc:`../tutorial_bt`
- :doc:`../tutorial_mor_with_anns`
- :doc:`../tutorial_external_solver`


Additional new features
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Improvements to ParameterFunctionals
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Several improvements have been made to pyMOR's |ParameterFunctionals|:

- `[#934] [parameters/functionals] Add derivative of products <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/934>`_
- `[#950] [parameters/functionals] Add LincombParameterFunctional <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/950>`_
- `[#959] verbose name for d_mu functionals <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/959>`_
- `[#861] Min-theta approach <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/861>`_
- `[#952] add BaseMaxThetaParameterFunctional to generalize max-theta approach  <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/952>`_


Extended Newton algorithm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Finding a proper parameter for the step size in the Newton algorithm can be a difficult
task. In this release an Armijo line search algorithm is added which allows for computing
adequate step sizes in every step of the iteration. Details about the line search
implementation in pyMOR can be found in `[#925] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/925>`_.

Additionally, new options for determining convergence of the Newton method have been added.
It is now possible to choose between the norm of the residual or the update vector as a
measure for the error. Information about other noteworthy improvements that are related to
this change can be found in `[#956] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/956>`_, as well as
`[#932] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/932>`_.


initial_guess parameter for apply_inverse
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The :meth:`~pymor.operators.interface.Operator.apply_inverse` and
:meth:`~pymor.operators.interface.Operator.apply_inverse_adjoint` methods of the |Operator| interface
have gained an additional `initial_guess` parameter that can be passed to iterative linear solvers.
For nonlinear |Operators| the initial guess is passed to the :meth:`~pymor.algorithms.newton.newton`
algorithm `[#941] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/941>`_.


manylinux 2010+2014 wheels
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In addition to `manylinux1 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0513/>`_ wheels we are now also shipping wheels
conforming with the `manylinux2010 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0571/>`_ and
`manylinux2014 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0599/>`_ standards. The infrastructure for this was added in
`[#846] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/846>`_.


Debugging improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The :meth:`~pymor.core.defaults.defaults` decorator has been refactored to make stepping through it
with a debugger faster `[#864] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/864>`_. Similar improvements
have been made to :meth:`RuleTable.apply <pymor.algorithms.rules.RuleTable.apply>`. The new
:meth:`~pymor.algorithms.rules.RuleTable.breakpoint_for_obj` and
:meth:`~pymor.algorithms.rules.RuleTable.breakpoint_for_name` methods allow setting conditional
breakpoints in :meth:`RuleTable.apply <pymor.algorithms.rules.RuleTable.apply>` that match
specific objects to which the table might be applied `[#945] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/945>`_.


WebGL-based visualizations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This release enables our `pythreejs <https://github.com/jupyter-widgets/pythreejs>`_-based visualization module
for Jupyter Notebook environments by default. It acts as a drop in replacement for the previous default, which was
matplotlib based. This new module improves interactive performance for visualizations
with a large number of degrees of freedom by utilizing the user's graphics card via the browser's WebGL API.
The old behaviour can be reactivated using

.. code-block::

    from pymor.basic import *
    set_defaults({'pymor.discretizers.builtin.gui.jupyter.get_visualizer.backend': 'MPL'})


Backward incompatible changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Renamed interface classes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The names of pyMOR's interface classes have been shortened
`[#859] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/859>`_.  In particular:

- `VectorArrayInterface`, `OperatorInterface`, `ModelInterface` were renamed to
  |VectorArray|, |Operator|, |Model|. The corresponding modules were renamed from
  `pymor.*.interfaces` to `pymor.*.interface`.
- `BasicInterface`, `ImmutableInterface`, `CacheableInterface` were renamed to
  |BasicObject|, |ImmutableObject|, |CacheableObject|. `pymor.core.interfaces` has
  been renamed to :mod:`pymor.core.base`.

The base classes `OperatorBase`, `ModelBase`, `FunctionBase` were merged into
their respective interface classes `[#859] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/859>`_,
`[#867] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/867>`_.


Module cleanup
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Modules associated with pyMOR's builtin discretization toolkit were moved to the
:mod:`pymor.discretizers.builtin` package `[#847] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/847>`_.
The `domaindescriptions` and `functions` packages were made sub-packages of
:mod:`pymor.analyticalproblems` `[#855] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/855>`_,
`[#858] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/858>`_. The obsolete code in
`pymor.discretizers.disk` was removed `[#856] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/856>`_.
Further, the `playground` package was removed `[#940] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/940>`_.


State ids removed and caching simplified
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The unnecessarily complicated concept of *state ids*, which was used to build cache keys
based on the actual state of a |CacheableObject|, has been completely removed from pyMOR.
Instead, now a `cache_id` has to be manually specified when persistent caching over multiple
program runs is desired `[#841] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/841>`_.


Further API changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- `[#938] Fix order of parameters in thermalblock_problem <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/938>`_
- `[#980] Set gram_schmidt tolerances in POD to 0 to never truncate pod modes <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/980>`_
- `[#1012] Change POD default rtol and fix analyze_pickle demo for numpy master <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1012>`_


Further notable improvements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
- `[#885] Implement VectorArrayOperator.apply_inverse <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/885>`_
- `[#888] Implement FenicsVectorSpace.from_numpy <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/888>`_
- `[#895] Implement VectorArray.__deepcopy__ via VectorArray.copy(deep=True) <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/895>`_
- `[#905] Add from_files method to SecondOrderModel <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/905>`_
- `[#919] [reductors.coercive] remove unneccessary initialization in SimpleCoerciveReductor <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/919>`_
- `[#926] [Operators] Speed up apply methods for LincombOperator <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/926>`_
- `[#937] Move NumpyListVectorArrayMatrixOperator out of the playground <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/937>`_
- `[#943] [logger] adds a ctx manager that restores effective level on exit <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/943>`_
