
pyMOR 2021.2 (December 22, 2021)
--------------------------------
We are proud to announce the release of pyMOR 2021.2! New features in
this release are the addition of Dynamic Mode Decomposition for data-driven
model order reduction and the formalization of model inputs. Further,
general output error bounds for Reduced Basis reductors and experimental
scikit-fem support as an alternative to the builtin discretizers were
added. Wachspress' shifts accelerate the solution of Lyapunov equations
for symmetric system matrices.

Over 300 single commits have entered this release. For a full list of changes
see `here <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/compare/2021.1.x...2021.2.x>`__.

pyMOR 2021.2 contains contributions by Tim Keil, Jonas Nicodemus and
Henrike von Hülsen. See `here <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/blob/main/AUTHORS.md>`__
for more details.


Release highlights
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Data-driven model order reduction with Dynamic Mode Decomposition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Dynamic Mode Decomposition (DMD) is a well-established method for computing
low-rank dynamics from observational or simulation data. In contrast to
Proper Orthogonal Decomposition (POD) where the computed modes are weighted
by energy content, DMD modes are associated with oscillation frequency and
decay rate. In `[#1424] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1424>`_, both
the 'standard' and 'exact' versions of DMD in the sense of :cite:`TRLBK14`
have been implemented as algorithms operating on arbitrary |VectorArrays|.
As such, :meth:`pymor.algorithms.dmd.dmd` can be applied also to
:class:`blocked <pymor.vectorarrays.block.BlockVectorArray>` or
:class:`MPI-distributed <pymor.vectorarrays.mpi.MPIVectorArray>` datasets.

Formalization of Model inputs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In an ongoing effort to unify system-theoretic and Reduced Basis |Models| in
pyMOR and to enable time-domain simulations for system-theoretic |Models|, we
have formalized the notion of the input of a |Model|. Building on pyMOR's
recently introduced support for time-dependent parameter values, |Models| can
now have an `input` parameter, for which time-dependent parameter values are
passed to :meth:`~pymor.models.interface.Model.solve`,
:meth:`~pymor.models.interface.Model.output` and related methods via the new
`input` keyword argument. For instance, for an arbitrary |InstationaryModel|
`m` we can interpret the `rhs` operator as an input-to-state map as follows:

.. code:: python

  m = m.with_(rhs=m.rhs * ProjectionParameterFunctional('input', 1))
  U = m.solve(input='[sin(t[0])]', mu=mu)

For further details, see `[#1469] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1469>`_.


Additional new features
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Basic RB output error estimates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
pyMOR's Reduced Basis reductors have been extended to compute a basic
estimate for the :meth:`~pymor.models.interface.Model.output` error.
Given a linear output functional, this estimate is given by the product
of the estimated state-space error and the dual norm of the output functional.
The dual norm is computed efficiently online, also for parameter-dependent
output functionals that are parameter-separable. For further details, see
`[#1474] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1474>`_. A DWR-based output
error estimator is currently under development
`[#1496] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1496>`_.

Experimental scikit-fem support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In `[#1507] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1507>`_, experimental support was
added for building |Models| from pyMOR's :mod:`~pymor.analyticalproblems` using
`scikit-fem <https://scikit-fem.readthedocs.io/>`_ as a discretization backend.
scikit-fem is a lightweight NumPy/SciPy-based finite-element library that offers
more advanced features than pyMOR's builtin discretization toolkit, such as 3d meshes
or higher-order methods. Currently, only |StationaryProblems| can be discretized using
:meth:`pymor.discretizers.skfem.cg.discretize_stationary_cg`, which supports most
features of the corresponding builtin discretizer.

Wachspress' shifts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
When performing model order reduction with the balanced truncation method, the primary
computational cost consists of solving two Lyapunov equations. In pyMOR, the low-rank
ADI iteration is used to solve these matrix equations in a large-scale setting. In
this method, shift parameter selection plays a crucial role in convergence speed.
For general systems, a heuristic for computing sub-optimal shifts is implemented in pyMOR.
Through `[#1445] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1445>`_, optimal shift parameter
computation for LTI models with symmetric system matrices was added.


Backward incompatible changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Transfer function restructuring
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In the pursuit of unifying system-theoretic and Reduced Basis |Models|,
the |TransferFunction| class is no longer a subclass of |Model| and
is moved from :mod:`pymor.models.iosys` to :mod:`pymor.models.transfer_function`.
Additionally, the `InputOutputModel` and `InputStateOutputModel` classes have
been removed.
Furthermore, the transfer function-related methods of |LTIModel|,
|SecondOrderModel| and |LinearDelayModel| are deprecated and the attribute
`transfer_function` should be used instead (e.g., `m.bode_plot(...)` should be replaced
with `m.transfer_function.bode_plot(...)`).
See `[#1486] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1486>`_ for more details.


Further notable improvements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
- `[#1179] Update error analysis <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1179>`_
- `[#1422] Fix passing a function as boundary_types argument to PolygonalDomain <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1422>`_
- `[#1437] Prevent invalid conversion of an Expression to bool <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1437>`_
- `[#1439] Fix deprecated usage of asyncio.wait in HAPOD algorithm <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1439>`_
- `[#1442] SAMDP improvement <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1442>`_
- `[#1453] Improve error handling in DiskRegion / Don't disable caching in mpi_wrap_model <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1453>`_
- `[#1454] Ensure that output_functional is never None <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1454>`_
- `[#1478] Add NumpyConversionOperator <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1478>`_
- `[#1479] Fix VectorArray slicing and disable slice filtering in VectorArray tests <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1479>`_
- `[#1484] Ensure that mu arguments are parsed before cache keys are built <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1484>`_
- `[#1490] Speedup computations by passing inputs as batch in the instationary ANN models <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1490>`_
- `[#1492] Minor fixes to symbolic expression library <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1492>`_
- `[#1493] Warn when __init__ of a ParametricObject takes a variable number of arguments <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1493>`_
- `[#1506] Fix to_numpy() for Array expression <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1506>`_
