
pyMOR 2021.1 (September 24, 2021)
---------------------------------
We are proud to announce the release of pyMOR 2021.1! This release includes
several new reductors for LTI systems. In particular, methods for reducing and
analyzing unstable systems have been added. ANNs can now be used in order to
directly approximate output quantities. Furthermore, it is now possible to
work with time-dependent parameters in pyMOR.

Over 700 single commits have entered this release. For a full list of changes
see `here <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/compare/2020.2.x...2021.1.x>`__.

pyMOR 2021.1 contains contributions by Tim Keil, Hendrik Kleikamp, Josefine Zeller
and Meret Behrens. See `here <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/blob/main/AUTHORS.md>`__
for more details.


Release highlights
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Methods for unstable LTI systems
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Many popular system-theoretic model order reduction methods are not applicable
to unstable LTI systems out of the box. In
`[#1149] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1149>`_ two reductors and several
methods for working with and analyzing unstable |LTIModels| have been added.
The :class:`~pymor.reductors.bt.FDBTReductor` allows for applying the balanced
truncation technique to unstable systems by performing a Bernoulli stabilization
before using the classical BT method. The :class:`~pymor.reductors.h2.GapIRKAReductor`
aims to compute a reduced-order model such that the approximation error with
respect to the :math:`\mathcal{H}_2`-Gap norm is small. Additionally,
a variety of numerical linear algebra methods have been a part of
`[#1149] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1149>`_: Riccati equation solvers
for small and dense matrices, Bernoulli matrix equation solver, new options for
for pyMOR's eigensolver such as shift-and-invert mode and :math:`\mathcal{L}_2`-norm
computation for |LTIModels|. The new methods and reductors are showcased in
:doc:`../tutorial_unstable_lti_systems`.

Modal truncation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Based on the previously added :meth:`~pymor.algorithms.samdp.samdp` method for
computing dominant poles of an LTI system,
a modal truncation reductor :class:`~pymor.reductors.mt.MTReductor` was added in
`[#1151] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1151>`_.
It constructs a reduced-order model from dominant poles of the full-order model,
with different possible dominance measures.
The reductor also implements a dense method for small to medium problems.

Time-dependent parameter values
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
We have extended the handling of |Parameters| in pyMOR to allow time-dependent
|parameter values|. Such parameter values are specified by instantiating a
:class:`~pymor.parameters.base.Mu` object with a |Function| that maps the current
time to the respective parameter value. The function is automatically evaluated
at `mu['t']` and correspondingly updated in `mu.with_(t=new_time)` such that
the time dependence of the values is completely transparent to their consumer.
This allows existing ROMs to be used with time-dependent parameter values
without any changes in the MOR algorithm. For further details, see
`[#1379] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1379>`_.


Additional new features
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Symbolic ExpressionFunctions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A simple symbolic math expression library has been added to pyMOR, which is now
used by |ExpressionFunction| and |ExpressionParameterFunctional| to parse and
evaluate the given expressions, see
`[#1277] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1277>`_. As immediate benefits,
the :attr:`shape <pymor.analyticalproblems.functions.Function.shape_range>`
of the expression is now automatically determined and the expression is
automatically vectorized correctly. In particular, there is no longer a need to
add `...` to indexing expressions. Further, malformed expressions now lead
to meaningful error messages at parse time.

In the future, conversion routines will be added to make the expression library
usable for :mod:`~pymor.discretizers` that use external PDE solvers, such that
the same |ExpressionFunction| can be used for different PDE solver backends.

Output reductor using ANNs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To further extend the neural network based reductors, in
`[#1282] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1282>`_ a reductor that only
approximates the mapping from parameter space to output space using a neural
network was added. Furthermore, a corresponding reductor for the instationary
case was implemented. The new reductor for the stationary case is used in
:doc:`../tutorial_mor_with_anns` and compared to the
:class:`~pymor.reductors.neural_network.NeuralNetworkReductor`.

As part of `[#1282] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1282>`_, the
ANN-reductors were refactored, and in
`[#1274] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1274>`_, the neural network
training routines have been separated from the reductors.

Improvements to the HAPOD algorithm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
pyMOR's implementation of
`the HAPOD algorithm <https://epubs.siam.org/doi/abs/10.1137/16M1085413>`_
has seen several significant improvements in
`[#1322] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1322>`_:

- :func:`~pymor.algorithms.hapod.hapod` now launches its own asyncio event
  loop in order to avoid conflicts with already running event loops
  (e.g. when running from jupyter).
- It is now possible to explicitly specify that a node has to be processed
  after certain other nodes. In particular, this can be used to ensure the
  right execution order for incremental POD computations.
- HAPOD trees are now created dynamically, which should significantly simplify
  specifying own tree topologies.
- :func:`~pymor.algorithms.hapod.dist_hapod` now has an `arity` argument, which
  allows to control the number of intermediate POD levels.
- :func:`~pymor.algorithms.hapod.inc_hapod` now accepts arbitrary iterables for
  the snapshot data, which makes it easy to incrementally compute the data
  while computing the POD.

Improved support for Empirical Interpolation of functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The :func:`~pymor.algorithms.ei.ei_greedy` algorithm has been improved, in
particular to make it more useful for the interpolation of coefficient
|Functions|. Based on these improvements, an
:func:`~pymor.algorithms.ei.interpolate_function` method has been added which
creates an :class:`~pymor.analyticalproblems.functions.EmpiricalInterpolatedFunction`
from an arbitrary pyMOR |Function|. The `function_ei` demo script
demonstrates the new functionality. For further details, see
`[#1240] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1240>`_.


Methods for exporting matrices of system models
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The system classes :class:`~pymor.models.iosys.LTIModel` and
:class:`~pymor.models.iosys.SecondOrderModel` have had various `from_*` methods
for constructing models from matrices.
In `[#1309] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1309>`_,
the corresponding `to_*` methods were added for exporting matrices from a model.

pyMOR is now a pure Python package
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
All Cython modules in pyMOR's discretization toolkit have been replaced by
equivalent |NumPy| code, see `[#1314] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1314>`_.
As a result, pyMOR is now a pure Python package, which should significantly
simplify pyMOR's installation when no pre-built binary wheels are available.



Backward incompatible changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Drop python 3.6 support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Support for Python 3.6 has been dropped in pyMOR 2021.1
`[#1302] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1302>`_. The minimum supported
version now is Python 3.7.

Symbolic ExpressionFunctions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Due to the improvements in `[#1277] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1277>`_,
the signature of |ExpressionFunction| has changed. To use existing code with
pyMOR 2021.1, the `shape_range` argument has to be removed from all
instantiations of |ExpressionFunction|. Further, all occurrences of `...`
have to be removed in indexing expressions.


Further notable improvements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
- `[#1196] Add outputs to FV discretizers <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1196>`_
- `[#1234] [operators/block] skip ZeroOperators in apply and apply_adjoint <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1234>`_
- `[#1243] Fixed computation of intersection_codim in _neighbours <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1243>`_
- `[#1246] Fix bug in apply_inverse for LincombOperators <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1246>`_
- `[#1270] Simplify SecondOrderModel-related operators <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1270>`_
- `[#1294] Let sample_randomly return a Mu instance in case count=None <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1294>`_
- `[#1296] Simplify semantics of assemble_lincomb / fix #1276 <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1296>`_
- `[#1304] Several improvements to Qt-based visualizations <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1304>`_
- `[#1309] Add methods to models.iosys for exporting matrices <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1309>`_
- `[#1317] Add FenicsMatrixOperator._real_apply_inverse_adjoint_one_vector <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1317>`_
- `[#1323] Switch tutorials from rst to myst-markdown <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1323>`_
- `[#1325] Let MPIOperator.assemble return self when operator is unchanged <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1325>`_
- `[#1326] Fix almost_less for negative numbers <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1326>`_
- `[#1327] Use complex vector handling of wrapped object in MPIVectorArray <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1327>`_
- `[#1331] Improve shift selection in lradi <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1331>`_
- `[#1363] [logging] implement a LOG_once facility <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1363>`_
- `[#1378] Bugfixes in lrradi <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1378>`_
- `[#1388] Fix qt config check <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1388>`_
- `[#1408] Introduce ListVectorSpace.vector_type and make make_array smarter <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1408>`_
- `[#1410] Add StationaryModel.deaffinize <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1410>`_
