
pyMOR 2022.1 (July 21, 2022)
----------------------------

We are proud to announce the release of pyMOR 2022.1!
pyMOR now comes with support for discrete-time systems
and structure-preserving MOR for symplectic systems.
The neural network based reductors gained many new features,
while the VectorArray implementation got simplified.
We have added an experimental FEniCS discretizer
and extended functionality for randomized linear algebra.

Over 760 single commits have entered this release. For a full list of changes
see `here <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/compare/2021.2.x...2022.1.x>`__.

pyMOR 2022.1 contains contributions by Patrick Buchfink, Monica Dessole,
Hendrik Kleikamp, Peter Oehme, Art Pelling and Sven Ullmann.
See `here <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/blob/main/AUTHORS.md>`__ for more details.

Release highlights
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Support for discrete-time systems
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
With `[#1500] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1500>`_, discrete-time |LTIModels| can now
be instantiated by passing the `sampling_time` to the constructor. The computation of
discrete-time gramians has been enabled in `[#1525] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1525>`_
by solving the associated Stein equations with solvers from either SciPy or SLICOT and
`[#1617] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1617>`_ also allows for Balanced Truncation of discrete-time systems.
In `[#1614] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1614>`_, a class for the construction and evaluation of Moebius
transformations was added. Realizations of LTI systems can be transformed according to arbitrary |MoebiusTransformations|.
The conversion of continuous-time and discrete-time systems with Tustin's method (with optional frequency prewarping)
is implemented on the basis of these |MoebiusTransformations| in dedicated
:func:`to_continuous <pymor.models.iosys.LTIModel.to_continuous>` and
:func:`to_discrete <pymor.models.iosys.LTIModel.to_discrete>` conversion methods.
In preparation for data-driven reduced order modelling methods, a |NumpyHankelOperator| is added in
`[#1546] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1546>`_ that avoids explicit matrix constructions by supplying
FFT-accelerated matrix-vector multiplication routines that work on the Markov parameters directly.

Structure-preserving model reduction for symplectic systems
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
With `[#1621] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1621>`_
pyMOR now allows to formulate a quadratic Hamiltonian system as full-order model.
Moreover, pyMOR implements multiple structure-preserving basis generation techniques
`[#1600] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1600>`_.
In combination with a special reductor for quadratic Hamiltonian systems, a structure-preserving
reduction, known as symplectic MOR, is available
`[#1678] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1678>`_. A demo script
for the linear wave equation is included.


Additional new features
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Lots of new features for the neural network based reductors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In `[#1559] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1559>`_, a couple of new features
including support for learning rate schedulers, input and output scaling,
regularization of weights and biases, a weighted MSE loss and logging of current
losses have been added to improve the training of neural networks. These additions
make the training process more flexible and all components can be combined as required.
If no full-order model is available but only snapshot data, it is now also possible to
use the neural network based reductors in a data-driven way.
In `[#1679] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1679>`_, the reductors have been
adjusted to allow for pairs of parameters and corresponding snapshot data as training
set instead of only parameters. The resulting surrogate models can be used as before.

Randomized linear algebra algorithms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
pyMOR's numerical linear algebra algorithms have been extended by randomized methods:
the new :mod:`~pymor.algorithms.rand_la` module includes a method for
:func:`singular value decomposition <pymor.algorithms.rand_la.random_generalized_svd>`
of arbitrary linear pyMOR |Operators|, as well as an algorithm for solving
:func:`generalized hermitian eigenproblems <pymor.algorithms.rand_la.random_ghep>`.
The old randomized range approximation algorithms from the
`pymor.algorithms.randrangefinder` module have been moved to the new module as well
`[#1552] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1552>`_.

FEniCS discretizer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
pyMOR's symbolic :class:`Expressions <pymor.analyticalproblems.expressions.Expression>`
can now be converted to equivalent `UFL <https://fenics.readthedocs.io/projects/ufl/en/latest/>`_
expressions. In particular, |ExpressionFunction| now has a `to_fenics` methods which
utilizes this functionality under the hood `[#1550] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1550>`_.
Based on this feature an experimental :mod:`discretizer <pymor.discretizers.fenics>`
converts pyMOR |analytical problems| to FEniCS-based |Models|
`[#1682] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1682>`_.

Simplified VectorArray implementation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The |VectorArray| code in pyMOR has been refactored into a single user-facing interface
class and backend-specific
:class:`implementation classes <pymor.vectorarrays.interface.VectorArrayImpl>`.
All error checking, as well as managing of copy-on-write semantics and views is
handled by the interface class, which should significantly simplify the correct
implementation of new |VectorArrays| `[#1584] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1584>`_.


Backward incompatible changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Dropped Python 3.7 support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Following NumPy/SciPy we have dropped official support for
Python 3.7. This means pyMOR now requires Python 3.8 to install
and is no longer tested against 3.7.


Further notable improvements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
- `[#1513] FEniCS: Save LinearSolver object in FenicsMatrixOperator to accelerate repeated solves <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1513>`_
- `[#1520] Change RQI stopping criterion <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1520>`_
- `[#1531] Remove 'if config.HAVE_...' checks in modules that require optional dependencies <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1531>`_
- `[#1539] Add algorithm to contract non-parametric parts of LincombOperators and ConcatenationOperators <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1539>`_
- `[#1576] Traverse ast to parse literals in Expressions <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1576>`_
- `[#1583] preset values for LTIModel <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1583>`_
- `[#1611] PHLTI system <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1611>`_
- `[#1616] Improve LTIModel.from_mat_file <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1616>`_
- `[#1637] Avoid division by zero in gram_schmidt <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1637>`_
- `[#1659] Provide a default implementation of ComplexifiedVector.amax via to_numpy <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1659>`_
- `[#1662] Provide a default implementation of apply_inverse by converting to a NumPy/SciPy matrix <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1662>`_
- `[#1673] Use Navier-Stokes example in Neural Network demo <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1673>`_
