pyMOR 2023.1 (July 6, 2023)
---------------------------

We are proud to announce the release of pyMOR 2023.1!
pyMOR now comes with three new MOR methods for port-Hamiltonian systems,
a new data-driven MOR method,
optimization methods for parametric problems, and
an improved experience for Jupyter users.

Over 880 single commits have entered this release. For a full list of changes
see `here <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/compare/2022.2.x...2023.1.x>`__.

pyMOR 2023.1 contains contributions by Tim Keil, Steffen Müller,
Mohamed Adel Naguib Ahmed, Jonas Nicodemus, and Peter Oehme.
See `here <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/blob/main/AUTHORS.md>`__ for more
details.


Release highlights
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Model reduction methods for port-Hamiltonian systems
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The previous release added a |PHLTIModel| class for port-Hamiltonian systems.
This release adds three MOR methods for port-Hamiltonian (or passive) systems:

- port-Hamiltonian IRKA (pH-IRKA) `[#1835] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1835>`_,
- positive real balanced truncation (PRBT) `[#1847] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1847>`_, and
- passivity preserving model reduction via spectral factorization `[#2033] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2033>`_.

Additionally, |PHLTIModel| now inherits from |LTIModel|,
supports the :math:`Q` matrix and
adds conversion to the Berlin form `[#1836] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1836>`_.
To enable some solvers for positive real Riccati equations,
the ``S`` parameter was added to Riccati equation solvers `[#1837] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1837>`_.

Loewner reductor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A reductor based on Loewner matrices was added in `[#1952] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1952>`_
for data-driven (tangential) Lagrange interpolation.
This extends and complements the available reductors for
bitangential Hermite interpolation (:class:`~pymor.reductors.interpolation.TFBHIReductor`) and
the (P)AAA algorithm (:class:`~pymor.reductors.aaa.PAAAReductor`). The implementation supports various
options for partitioning the data as well as handling MIMO systems. Additionally, the reductor is flexible
as it works with a user provided data set or any model that has a associated transfer function.

Optimization
~~~~~~~~~~~~
In `[#1924] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1924>`_, an error-aware adaptive
trust-region method was added. This method solves an optimization problem :math:`\min_{\mu \in C} J(\mu)`
for |Models| with an output :math:`J` depending on a box-constrained :math:`\mu`.
The main idea of the algorithm can be found in :cite:`YM13`, and an RB application to box-constrained
parameters with possible enlarging of the trust radius in :cite:`KMOSV21`.
This method contrasts itself from a standard trust region (TR) method in the computation of the
trust region: standard TR implementations use a metric distance, whereas this function uses an
error estimator obtained from the surrogate. Additionally, the cheap model function
surrogate is only updated for each outer iteration, not entirely reconstructed.

Jupyter support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
We have made several improvements to the user experience in `Jupyter <https://jupyter.org>`_
notebook environments.
Apart from polishing the existing `matplotlib <https://matplotlib.org>`_-based notebook visualizers
`[#1949] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1949>`_, `[#1988] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1988>`_,
we have stabilized and improved our new `K3D <https://k3d-jupyter.org>`_-based visualizations.
In particular, the K3D-visualizer is now used in our online documentation.
Due to an outstanding bug in K3D, which leads to empty plots unless the browser window is resized,
the new backend is only enabled by default in notebooks when the upcoming version 2.15.3 of K3D is
installed `[#1937] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1937>`_.
Further the new :func:`~pymor.models.interact.interact` function allows to interactively explore
pyMOR |Models| via a dynamically created `ipywidgets <https://ipywidgets.readthedocs.io>`_-based
user interface that shows the solution/output of a model depending on the selected inputs and parameters
`[#2061] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2061>`_.


Additional new features
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Quadratic output functionals
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In `[#1796] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1796>`_,
two classes, :class:`~pymor.operators.constructions.QuadraticFunctional` and
:class:`~pymor.operators.constructions.QuadraticProductFunctional`,
have been introduced to handle the cases of bilinear functionals of the form
:math:`A(u, u) = u^T A u` and :math:`A(u, u) = (a(u), b(u))`, respectively.
These can now be used as reducible output functionals.
Moreover, the builtin CG discretizer also supports a `quadratic` argument for
defining bilinear outputs conveniently.

Time-stepping iterator
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The :meth:`~pymor.algorithms.timestepping.TimeStepper.iterate` method was added to
:mod:`time-steppers <pymor.algorithms.timestepping>`,
which returns a generator for solution snapshots `[#2053] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2053>`_.
Compared to the :meth:`~pymor.algorithms.timestepping.TimeStepper.solve` method,
it allows iterating over solution snapshots without storing all computed snapshots.


Backward incompatible changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Visualization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The pythreejs-based visualizer has been removed in favor of our new K3D-based
implementation.


Further notable improvements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
- `[#1916] Input-output selection in bode_plot <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1916>`_
- `[#1940] Adding Log Sampling <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1940>`_
- `[#1943] Implement BlockOperator.jacobian by computing Jacobians of blocks <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1943>`_
- `[#1948] Contributing file and developer docs <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1948>`_
- `[#1953] Demo systems time-stepping <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1953>`_
- `[#1978] Some fixes in the cg discretizers <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1978>`_
- `[#1983] Add tol to hinf_norm and linf_norm <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/1983>`_
- `[#2004] Algebraic ops for Mu instances <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2004>`_
- `[#2014] Restructure packaging/ci infrastructure <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2014>`_
- `[#2022] Separate out "Getting started" <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2022>`_
- `[#2030] Replace .data by .detach() in neural network models <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2030>`_
- `[#2058] Fix problem description in heat demo <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2058>`_
- `[#2076] Improve parsing of time-dependent parameter values <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2076>`_
