pyMOR 2023.2 (December 7, 2023)
-------------------------------

We are proud to announce the release of pyMOR 2023.2!
This release features new and improved tutorials and new |Operators| which
enable fast computation for certain structured problems.

Over 375 single commits have entered this release. For a full list of changes
see `here <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/compare/2023.1.x...2023.2.x>`__.

pyMOR 2023.2 contains contributions by Steffen Müller, Peter Oehme and Art Pelling.
See `here <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/blob/main/AUTHORS.md>`__ for more
details.


Release highlights
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

New Tutorials
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This release includes new tutorials and updates to existing tutorials on the
following topics:

- port-Hamiltonian systems `[#2132] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2132>`_
- VectorArray basics `[#2176] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2176>`_
- ANN reductors for time-dependent problems `[#2231] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2231>`_

Additionally, the rendering of tutorial notebooks has been improved
through `[#2174] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2174>`_ and
`[#2175] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2175>`_

DFT-based Operators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A previous pyMOR release added |NumpyHankelOperator|.
This release adds the related |NumpyCirculantOperator| and
|NumpyToeplitzOperator|
(see `[#2138] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2138>`_). These |Operators|
allow for performing fast matrix vector multiplications by exploiting an
underlying circulant or Toeplitz structure.


Additional new features
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

LTIModel iterable time-stepping
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Previous pyMOR releases added time-domain analysis methods to |LTIModel| and
iterable time-stepping.
This release modifies the time-domain methods to use iterable time-stepping,
improving performance when only system output is required.
Additionally, it allows handling the feedthrough term
(see `[#2203] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2203>`_).

Returning right singular vectors in POD computations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
It is now possible to also directly obtain the right singular vectors when calling the
:meth:`~pymor.algorithms.pod.pod` method in pyMOR. The behavior of the
:meth:`~pymor.algorithms.pod.pod` method with respect to returning the right singular
vectors is controlled using the `return_reduced_coefficients` argument which was added
in `[#2114] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2114>`_.

Creating BitmapFunctions from matrices or random data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|BitmapFunction| can now be instantiated directly from an existing data array.
A random field can be generated with the new `random` factory method.
The existing functionality to load the data from a given bitmap file is now provided
by the `from_file` factory method
(see `[#2228] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2228>`_).


Backward incompatible changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Renamed methods due to typos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The `psd_cotengent_lift` was renamed to `psd_cotangent_lift`
(`[#2131] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2131>`_).
Furthermore, methods with "neighbour" in the name were renamed to use "neighbor"
(`[#2130] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2130>`_).

Deprecated pymess bindings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Due to `pymess` not supporting Python 3.11,
it is deprecated in this release
(`[#2193] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2193>`_).
Support will be removed with the 2024.1 release.

pymor.tools.timer has been removed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Since timing is supported by various other libraries we drop pyMOR's timer with
`[#2194] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2194>`_.


Further notable improvements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
- `[#2111] Add check_finite and check_cond in NumpyMatrixOperator and use SciPy solvers elsewhere <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2111>`_
- `[#2113] Avoid assumption of exact complex conjugation in MTReductor <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2113>`_
- `[#2128] Operator-valued functions in FactorizedTransferFunction <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2128>`_
- `[#2134] Fix return_fpeak handling in pymor.models.iosys <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2134>`_
- `[#2171] Support Python 3.11 <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2171>`_
- `[#2180] Add H2 norm preset for TransferFunction <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2180>`_
- `[#2182] fix MoebiusTransformation <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2182>`_
- `[#2184] Refactoring pH and matrix solvers <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2184>`_
- `[#2200] Fix Slycot matrix mutation <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2200>`_
- `[#2212] p-AAA MIMO Fix <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2212>`_
- `[#2220] fix misleading from_points classmethod <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2220>`_
- `[#2230] Allow time-dependent Mus as arguments of cached functions / make cache key generation more flexible <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2230>`_
