pyMOR 2024.2 (December 20, 2024)
--------------------------------

We are proud to announce the release of pyMOR 2024.2!

The main new features are:

* Randomized leave-one-out error estimator

* Recalculated shifted Cholesky QR algorithm

* Improved handling of time-dependent parameter values

pyMOR 2024.2 contains contributions by Maximilian Bindhak, Dmitry Kabanov and Art Pelling.
See `here <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/blob/main/AUTHORS.md>`__ for more details.


Main new features
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Randomized leave-one-out error estimator
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In `[#2370] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2370>`_, a leave-one-out error estimator
for the :class:`~pymor.algorithms.rand_la.RandomizedRangeFinder` was implemented.
The leave-one-out error estimator can be activated by setting `error_estimator='loo'`
and estimates the Frobenius norm of the approximation error. Note that while it can be
much more efficient practice, this approach only supports Euclidean inner
products so far, and there are no guarantees on its failure probability.

Recalculated shifted Cholesky QR algorithm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
We implemented a version of the Shifted Cholesky QR algorithm in
`[#2304] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2304>`_, in which the shift is
recalculated in every iteration. The algorithms works reliably even for highly
ill-conditioned matrices.

Improved handling of time-dependent parameter values
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The concept of time-dependent parameter values was improved and made clearer
`[#2385] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2385>`_. There is now a strict distinction
between constant values and time-dependent values. In particular, code that is not aware
of time-dependent parameter values will no longer silently fail when such values are
provided.


Backward incompatible changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Dropped Python 3.8 support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Support for Python version 3.8 was dropped `[#2358] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2358>`_.
The latest tested version is now Python 3.9.

Removed ids for vector spaces
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Identifiers for |VectorSpaces| were removed completely in
`[#2357] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2357>`_ and are not supported anymore.


Further notable improvements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- `[#2283] Support NumPy 2 <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2283>`_
- `[#2296] Enhance LTIModel.from_matrices <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2296>`_
- `[#2306] Flip range_product and source_product args of RandomizedRangeFinder <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2306>`_
- `[#2328] Use for visualizer subprocess the parent Python executable <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2328>`_
- `[#2345] Catch all exceptions in config checks and make _init_mpi() more robust <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2345>`_
- `[#2347] Fix ei_greedy for complex-valued arrays <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2347>`_
- `[#2348] Add to_matrix to basic module <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2348>`_
- `[#2349] Add arbitrary (inequality) constraints to ParameterSpace <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2349>`_
- `[#2353] Add print_cached_methods() <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2353>`_
- `[#2354] Improve default behavior of print_defaults <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2354>`_
- `[#2359] Block Arnoldi <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2359>`_
- `[#2369] rand_la tweaks <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2369>`_
- `[#2374] Fix Loewner Bugs and Improve Tests <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2374>`_
- `[#2378] Time stepping backwards in time <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2378>`_
- `[#2380] Support Python 3.13 <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2380>`_
- `[#2381] scikit-fem: Fix boundary handling for 1.13 <= scipy < 1.15 <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2381>`_
- `[#2383] Add return_R flag and respective logic to the shifted_chol_qr <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2383>`_
- `[#2384] fix small bug in rand_la <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2384>`_
