pyMOR 2025.2 (January 9, 2026)
------------------------------

We are proud to announce the release of pyMOR 2025.2!

This release includes improved support for data-driven model order reduction
using machine learning methods such as artificial neural networks or the
Vectorial Kernel Orthogonal Greedy Algorithm (VKOGA).
Support for saddle-point problems, such as the
Stokes equations, has been improved, including dedicated supremizer enrichment
and least-squares Petrov-Galerkin (LSPG) reductors. Furthermore, the Q-DEIM
algorithm for empirical interpolation and bindings for the FEniCSx PDE solver
library have been added.

pyMOR 2025.2 contains contributions by Maximilian Bindhak, Timo Plath, Sven Ullmann
and @franciuprise. See `here <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/blob/main/AUTHORS.md>`__
for more details.


Main new features
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Data-driven reductors and VKOGA algorithm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In `[#2498] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2498>`_,
we introduced a general :class:`~pymor.reductors.data_driven.DataDrivenReductor`
that approximates the solution or output of a model as a parametric quantity by
training a machine learning surrogate. The reductor can be used for both
stationary and time-dependent problems (in the latter case, treating time as an
additional input parameter or predicting a whole time trajectory at once).
Furthermore, it is now possible to use different machine learning methods, including
neural networks (implemented in pyMOR using PyTorch), kernel methods (see below),
or any regressor from scikit-learn. We also added
:class:`~pymor.reductors.data_driven.DataDrivenPODReductor`, which follows an approach
similar to :cite:`HU18` by first computing a reduced basis from snapshot data using
Proper Orthogonal Decomposition (POD) and then generating the required training data
for the machine learning surrogate by performing an orthogonal projection of the
training snapshots onto the reduced basis.

The `NeuralNetworkReductor` has been removed. Its behavior can be replicated
using the :class:`~pymor.reductors.data_driven.DataDrivenPODReductor` in combination
with the :class:`~pymor.algorithms.ml.nn.regressor.NeuralNetworkRegressor`.
A detailed tutorial on the ML-based reductors and their usage
:doc:`has been added <../tutorial_mor_with_ml>`.

In `[#2484] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2484>`_, the Vectorial Kernel
Orthogonal Greedy Algorithm (VKOGA) :cite:`WH13` was implemented. The selection of
interpolation centers is performed using pyMOR's :meth:`~pymor.algorithms.greedy.weak_greedy`
algorithm. The interpolant is extended efficiently using a Newton basis and a Cholesky
decomposition of the kernel matrix. The
:class:`~pymor.algorithms.ml.vkoga.regressor.VKOGARegressor` can be used similarly
to other `scikit-learn <https://scikit-learn.org/>`_ regressors as a machine learning
surrogate in the :class:`~pymor.reductors.data_driven.DataDrivenReductor`.
It can also be applied independently of model order reduction as a surrogate in regression of
vector-valued data. See, for instance, the demo scripts :mod:`~pymordemos.vkoga`
and :mod:`~pymordemos.vkoga_2d_input`.

RB methods for saddle-point problems (Stokes equations)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In `[#2485] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2485>`_, we added the
:class:`~pymor.models.saddle_point.SaddlePointModel` class to represent saddle-point models in
pyMOR. An example of such a model is provided by :meth:`~pymor.models.examples.stokes_2Dexample`,
which discretizes a Stokes problem in two spatial dimensions.

In `[#2448] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2448>`_, we added new reductors for
:class:`SaddlePointModels <pymor.models.saddle_point.SaddlePointModel>`, in particular for the
Stokes equations. We implemented a :class:`~pymor.reductors.stokes.SupremizerGalerkinStokesReductor`,
which enriches the reduced velocity basis with pressure supremizers to ensure inf-sup stability
of the reduced model. Additionally, we implemented a :class:`~pymor.reductors.stokes.LSRBStokesReductor`,
which minimizes the least-squares residual of the Stokes problem over the reduced space.
The minimization problem can be either solved by Galerkin projection of the normal equations or by
Petrov-Galerkin projection in combination with a least-squares solver for the overdetermined
reduced system. :class:`~pymor.reductors.stokes.LSRBStokesReductor` is a subclass of
:class:`~pymor.reductors.basic.StationaryLSRBReductor`, which implements
least-squares residual minimization for general stationary problems.
The new Stokes reductors are demonstrated in the :mod:`pymordemos.stokes` demo script.

Q-DEIM algorithm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
As an alternative to the EI-Greedy algorithm for empirical interpolation, pyMOR now also
implements the :func:`Q-DEIM <pymor.algorithms.ei.qdeim>` algorithm :cite:`DG16`, which often
leads to more stable interpolation operators than the classical algorithm.
:func:`Q-DEIM <pymor.algorithms.ei.qdeim>` is based on a pivoted QR decomposition of the
transposed snapshot data matrix and can be used with any input data that can be converted to
|NumPy arrays| `[#2493] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2493>`_.

Bindings for FEniCSx
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This release adds support for the `FEniCSx <https://fenicsproject.org/>`_ PDE solver library
`[#2491] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2491>`_. The bindings offer similar
functionality as our bindings for legacy FEniCS, including support for nonlinear operators
and localized operator evaluation. Support for MPI-distributed FEniCSx models will be added
in a future release.


Backward incompatible changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`solver_options` replaced by |Solver| objects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Previously, pyMOR offered `solver_options` dictionaries as a way to customize the solvers used in
:meth:`~pymor.operators.interface.Operator.apply_inverse` and related methods. However, this approach
made it impossible to implement new solvers for existing |Operators| without modifying the
respective |Operator| class. It was hard to obtain a list of possible options, and it was unclear
if and how new |Operators| constructed from other |Operators| infer their `solver_options` from
the these |Operators|. In this release, we addressed these issues by replacing `solver_options`
with |Solver| objects, which can be attached to every |Operator| via the `solver` parameter of
its constructor. Available options for customizing a |Solver| are now exposed as attributes of
the respective |Solver| class. Inheritance of |Solvers| via interface methods such as
:meth:`~pymor.operators.interface.Operator.assemble` is now clearly documented. For a detailed
overview, see `[#2440] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2440>`_.


Dropped Python 3.9 support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Support for Python version 3.9 was dropped `[#2467] <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2467>`_.
The oldest supported version now is Python 3.10.


Further notable improvements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
- `[#2456] Remove shebangs from python scripts <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2456>`_
- `[#2458] Fix jupyter visualizer with matplotlib backend <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2458>`_
- `[#2464] correct hamiltonian operator in linear wave equation demo <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2464>`_
- `[#2465] Minor improvements to pyMOR defaults <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2465>`_
- `[#2468] Advertise print_cached_methods when showing pyMOR config <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2468>`_
- `[#2471] Add type annotations for @defaults and @cached <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2471>`_
- `[#2473] Add use_umfpack option to ScipySpSolveSolver class. <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2473>`_
- `[#2474] add logic for BlockOperators in simplify <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2474>`_
- `[#2475] bugfix neural_network reductor returning only last epoch instead of best network <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2475>`_
- `[#2476] Automatically remove MPI object when ObjectId dies <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2476>`_
- `[#2477] implement conjugate method for ParameterFunctional <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2477>`_
- `[#2478] include support for np.ndarray of dtype=object in get_children <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2478>`_
- `[#2479] add source and range spaces for BlockOperatorBase <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2479>`_
- `[#2482] Fix AdjointOperator.H <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2482>`_
- `[#2497] Store LU factorization in EmpiricalInterpolatedOperator <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2497>`_
- `[#2496] Add ScipyQRLSTSQSolver <https://github.com/pymor/pymor/pull/2496>`_
